okay with this tutorial we want to talk
about arranging the Prussians that you
work with on a regular basis after
playing around with these you'll kind of
get to know which brushes you favor over
the other ones and instead of this
looking at all these other brushes you
rarely use like I rarely use the oil
pastels you can kind of organize your
own little kind of private library and
this is the one that I have right now
these the brushes that I use on a
regular basis so i'll go ahead and show
you how to do that don't get rid of
minds already have it saved and where'd
you find the brushes little brush icons
the ones to come choose from go ahead
and pick which one you ever want to
start off with and it's click on that
and drag it away from that menu and then
you all of a sudden have a whole new
library to pick from and you can go
ahead and make this a little bit larger
and then kind of keep dragging you know
the brushes or pencils or whatever you
want to work with whatever you think you
work with on a regular basis just right
over there and once you get that going
what you can do is just go ahead and
kind of make a little bit larger so it's
a little bit easier to work with and at
first it's kind of hard to understand
how you can actually edit these things
because it seems like we're kind of
stuck in place we have to do is hold
down the shift button and then you can
actually move these around so you can
get them all nice and neat and that in
one line and then also if you decide
that you don't necessarily want one like
you don't want the eraser one once again
just hold down the shift button pull it
away and then poof it's gone and then we
can shift that one back there and and to
save it is go ahead up the window go to
arrange palette to go to save layout and
call it whatever whichever one you want
to
my brushes that's okay and then you can
just go ahead and you know add to it or
decide you want to get rid of it or
whatever and then you decide well you
know I really did like that layout you
can go back to range palettes click on
my brushes and it'll come back up for
you this will also save the a general
layout of everything that you have going
on so if you want to done you know move
this over here this over here or you
know whatever you want to do you just go
back there and save layout you can just
call this one crazy layout and okay
let's go to the default layer back where
we should be and then if I wanted to go
back to that palette go too crazy layout
and here we are again so that's one very
easy way of keeping organized another
way to organize your brushes is the way
that you actually pretty them what
they're going to see them in a list like
this or well then you want to see them
in a thumbnail and what you can do is
once you actually open up this little
palette here of all the little brushes
you can click on the little fly out menu
here with a little arrow and you can
choose whether to add to see the
thumbnails or you can choose whether to
see the list the same thing applies with
the variances you can click on here and
see it all the list or you can hit the
little fly out button here and you can
see it with the thumbnails however you
choose to see them I generally prefer
the list yet again another way to
organize your brushes is if you click on
the brushes that you have here let's
take the chopped one that I'm at right
now and you click on the variances
you'll see that really closely if you
pay attention
that we have quite a bit of repeats
going on in a way we have a blunt
chopped n blunt Chuck 20 blanc shop 30
this is basically the different brush
sizes that we're working with here so if
I work with 10 10 is basically the same
brush as 20 it's just a little bit
bigger and seeing how it's so easy to
change the size of your brush you know
whether you're going to change it over
here or whether you're going to change
it without the shortcut you have under
keyboard it's kind of a pain to kind of
go back and forth here to change the
brush sizes plus it takes up at a huge
amount of space I've already edited mine
quite a bit on one way you can edit
yours if you think this is just way too
confusing because that first impression
that seems like we have 100 and brushes
to choose from you do have a lot but
it's a little misleading because a lot
of these are just repeats you know these
three are repeating sweets these three
are repeats anyway what you can do if
you want to i'm kind of like edit to the
ones that you would actually see as you
go over to it windows I'd go to work
space you go to customize work space and
then you click on the brushes here click
on paint brushes and then you have all
the brushes that you have to pick from
here and can go ahead and we'll pick the
will pick the chalk one because I know
there's already some repeats that I
haven't deleted yet and you're not
really deleting them you're just kind of
like I turning them off or on so you're
not necessarily seeing them all the time
so we have out the blunt chalk 10 20 and
30 generally what I would do is I would
get rid of the the two extremes so get
rid of 30 get rid of 10 you don't have
to do this but I find it's a really easy
way of kind of organizing your palate
and then just go ahead and click done
when you're done with all of that and
now we can go back to our chalk and you
can see now we just have a blonde chalk
20 so that's one very easy way of
organizing your palette you can get rid
of maybe one fourth of the brushes that
you
you have to work with and you're out
getting rid of the brushes themselves
just getting rid of the different sizes
that you have and like I said earlier
it's a lot easier just to do that you
know changing the size here or the brush
shortcut that you add either on your
keyboard or your wacom tablet